OADP-1007: Documentation required for OADP on ROSA w/ STS (#53544)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-installing-oadp-rosa-sts.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_backing_up_and_restoring_applications/backing-up-applications.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-installing-oadp-rosa-sts_{context}"]

> = Intsalling OADP on ROSA with STS

Author: Fixed and added.

AWS STS is a global web service that provides short-term credentials for IAM or federated users. ROSA with STS is the recommended credential mode for ROSA clusters.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Disable Restic for OADP in ROSA environments because Restic is not supported in such environments. Instead use the native snapshots workflow to backup volumes.

Author: It should be Restic unless it is code as it is in the command.  Checking the original upstream documentation, I see that the note is related to the next step. Moved with changed text accordingly.

====

.Prerequisites

* A ROSA OpenShift Cluster with the required access and tokens.
* link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-aws.html#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws[A default Secret], if your backup and snapshot locations use the same credentials, or if you do not require a snapshot location.

> * An OpenShift secret that has been created from your AWS token file.

Author: Done.

+
[source,yaml]
----
cat <<EOF > ${SCRATCH}/credentials
[default]
role_arn = ${ROLE_ARN}
web_identity_token_file = /var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token
EOF
oc -n openshift-adp create secret generic cloud-credentials \
  --from-file=${SCRATCH}/credentials
----

.Procedure

> . Install the OADP Operator.

Author: Good point. Chose the first option since OADP might be new to these users.

. Create AWS cloud storage using your AWS credentials:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc create -f -
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CloudStorage
metadata:
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  creationSecret:
    key: credentials
    name: cloud-credentials
  enableSharedConfig: true
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
  provider: aws
  region: $REGION
EOF
----
. Create the `DataProtectionApplication resource`, which is used to configure the connection to the storage where the backups and volume snapshots will be stored:
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `enable` parameter of `restic` is set to `false` in this configuration because OADP does not support Restic in ROSA environments.

Author: As mentioned above the formatting is correct, AFAIK, in both places. Restic, without backticks, is used to refer to the service and `restic` is used to refer to the value of the parameter in the shell command.

====
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc create -f -
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: DataProtectionApplication
metadata:
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-dpa
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  backupLocations:
  - bucket:
      cloudStorageRef:
        name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
      credential:
        key: credentials
        name: cloud-credentials
      default: true
  configuration:
    velero:
      defaultPlugins:
      - openshift
      - aws
      restic:
        enable: false
  volumeSnapshots:
  - velero:
      config:
        credentialsFile: /tmp/credentials/openshift-adp/cloud-credentials-credentials
        enableSharedConfig: "true"
        region: ${REGION}
      provider: aws
EOF
----
+

> You are now ready to backup and restore OpenShift applications, please refer to the OADP documentation for instructions.

Reviewer: This is an opportunity to say "See _Additional resources_ for more information", and include the link there.

Author: Good idea -- I executed it a bit differently, following the source material for this PR: https://hackmd.io/yiZBeGFkSJOGIwni9iNnsA. Kathryn told me to use a hardlink to the openshift site for this kind of reference.

Reviewer: Gotcha, I was unaware there are specific rules in regards to ROSA. We should update the peer review checklist to include that detail.

Reviewer: Happy to help! Thanks for your consideration and changes!

[The following sentence was in the source. Is it OK? is it too vague?] Not all of the features and options provided by OADP are recommended or supported while using ROSA clusters with OADP.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Disable Restic for OADP in ROSA environments because Restic is not supported in such environments. Instead use the native snapshots workflow to backup volumes.
====

.Prerequisites

* A ROSA OpenShift Cluster with the required access and tokens.
* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.10/html/backup_and_restore/application-backup-and-restore#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws[A default Secret], if your backup and snapshot locations use the same credentials, or if you do not require a snapshot location.
* An OpenShift secret that has been created from your AWS token file.
+
[source,yaml]
----

> cat <<EOF > ${SCRATCH}/credentials

Reviewer 2: I think the velero secret must always follow this format ( aws_access_key_id= .. , aws_secret_access_key=.. )

$ cat << EOF > ./credentials-velero
[default]
aws_access_key_id=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
EOF

Above is from the official doc
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.10/html/backup_and_restore/application-backup-and-restore#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws

And the same format we use when we install OADP with ACM HUB .. 
So I am not sure the format suggested in the PR works , you want to double check with the originator ..

role_arn = .. 
web_identity_token_file = ..

Author: @weshayutin @mperetzred Can you advise on @birsanv's question? Thanks.

Reviewer 3: Role_arm and web token are the fields used for STS, I don't see them further down but when the correct secrets are mounted those are the correct fields :) I hope that helps!

[default]
role_arn = ${ROLE_ARN}
web_identity_token_file = /var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token
EOF
oc -n openshift-adp create secret generic cloud-credentials \
  --from-file=${SCRATCH}/credentials
----

.Procedure

. Install the OADP Operator.
. Create AWS cloud storage using your AWS credentials:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc create -f -
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CloudStorage
metadata:
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  creationSecret:
    key: credentials
    name: cloud-credentials
  enableSharedConfig: true
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
  provider: aws
  region: $REGION
EOF
----

> . Deploy the Data Protection Application:

Reviewer 2: Instead of 
Deploy the Data Protection Application

I would say
Create the DataProtectionApplication resource, used to configure the connection to the storage where the backups and volume snapshots will be stored.

( you don't deploy the DataProtectionApplication, just create the CR and use it to setup the velero configuration )

Author: Thanks, @birsanv!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-installing-oadp-rosa-sts_{context}"]
= OADP on ROSA with STS

> THIS IS A DRAFT. It includes questions for Dev and QE in brackets. This draft is based on link:https://hackmd.io/yiZBeGFkSJOGIwni9iNnsA[Documentation for OADP on ROSA with STS <draft>].

Reviewer 4: please remove the draft part

Author: Done.

[The following sentence was in the source. Is it OK? is it too vague?] Not all of the features and options provided by OADP are recommended or supported while using ROSA clusters with OADP.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Disable Restic for OADP in ROSA environments because Restic is not supported in such environments. Instead use the native snapshots workflow to backup volumes.
====

.Prerequisites

* A ROSA OpenShift Cluster with the required access and tokens.
* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.10/html/backup_and_restore/application-backup-and-restore#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws[A default Secret], if your backup and snapshot locations use the same credentials, or if you do not require a snapshot location.
* An OpenShift secret that has been created from your AWS token file.
+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 5: this is showing up in the doc.. probably shouldn't be right?

Reviewer 6: +1 shouldn't

Author: Fixed; thanks.

----
cat <<EOF > ${SCRATCH}/credentials
[default]
role_arn = ${ROLE_ARN}
web_identity_token_file = /var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token
EOF
oc -n openshift-adp create secret generic cloud-credentials \
  --from-file=${SCRATCH}/credentials
----

.Procedure

. Install the OADP Operator.
. Create AWS cloud storage using your AWS credentials:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc create -f -
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CloudStorage
metadata:
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  creationSecret:
    key: credentials
    name: cloud-credentials
  enableSharedConfig: true
  name: ${CLUSTER_NAME}-oadp
  provider: aws
  region: $REGION
EOF
+

> [source,yaml]

Author: Fixed; thanks.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-installing-oadp-rosa-sts_{context}"]
= OADP on ROSA with STS

THIS IS A DRAFT. It includes questions for Dev and QE in brackets. This draft is based on link:https://hackmd.io/yiZBeGFkSJOGIwni9iNnsA[Documentation for OADP on ROSA with STS <draft>].

You can employ OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) clusters to backup and restore application data. A ROSA deployment of OpenShift is configured specifically for AWS services. AWS STS is a global web service that provides short-term credentials for IAM or federated users. ROSA with STS is the recommended credential mode for ROSA clusters.

> [The following sentence was in the source. Is it OK? is it too vague?] Not all of the features and options provided by OADP are recommended or supported while using ROSA clusters with OADP.

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest to add:
We/RH recommend to use only native snapshots workflow for volumes backup

Author: Our style guide says to simply tell the users what to do instead of saying "RH recommends..."

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Disable Restic for OADP in ROSA environments because Restic is not supported in such environments. Use CSI storage instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Disable Restic for OADP in ROSA environments because Restic is not supported in such environments. Use Native snapshots workflow instead.
```

====

.Prerequisites

* A ROSA OpenShift Cluster with the required access and tokens.
* An OpenShift secret that has been created from with your AWS token file.
+

> [QUESTION: Should I refer them to link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.10/html/backup_and_restore/application-backup-and-restore#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws[Creating a default Secret] ?

Reviewer 4: I don't really get what is this default secret means here: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.10/html/backup_and_restore/application-backup-and-restore#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws

Does it mean a secret with a default name? e.g, the default name for AWS would be `cloud-credentials`, but each provider has it's own default name. Is that what it means? If so, I think we need to elaborate that in that reference, cause it's a bit vague

Anyway, I'm not sure if in this case we need to use the default name, as there is a credentialsFile field in the VSL, so theortically could be the path of a custom name too, but I'm not sure.
@dymurray @kaovilai could you please confirm?

Reviewer 6: default secret refers to secret with a default name which is used by VSL because it lacks ability to specify secret name as of OADP 1.1

`credentialsFile` is not intended to be used by end users, only by velero internals.

There will be an option in OADP 1.2 to specify the credentials used for VSL via a field `vsl.spec.credential` from a new enhancement by @sseago upstream https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/pull/4864/files#diff-9c33e79a81a315828980d140897f96dbd273f4a83a2bc16f976658657b10d50fR35 however it is not relevant for this PR.

Author: @kaovilai -- should we refer them to  https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.10/html/backup_and_restore/application-backup-and-restore#oadp-creating-default-secret_installing-oadp-aws[Creating a default Secret] in the prerequisites or not?

Reviewer 6: I think VSL info can be omitted. We will need to verify if VSL works first with STS before we include it IMO.

Reviewer 6: Reading https://mobb.ninja/docs/misc/oadp/rosa-sts/ again I think we should leave the default secret prerequisites in.

Their use of credentialsFile in volumeSnapshots.velero.config is hacky and could work with some experimenting but it will still be best to use default secret name in prerequisites and wait for OADP 1.2 to land to lessen confusion with configuring VSL secret names..

Reviewer 5: @kaovilai @RichardHoch any conclusions?
